---
layout: page
title: About ELL-i
header: About
tabtitle: About
tagline: ELL-i, Open Source Power-over-Ethernet Intelligence
group: navigation
---

ELL-i (pronounced in English and Germanic languages "el eye", or in
Fenno-Ugrian languages as the name "Elli") was originated in summer
2012, when [Pekka Nikander](http://www.pnr.iki.fi) and Teemu Hakala
decided to build a home automation system of their dreams.  The ideas
developed, and the ELL-i was founded in early 2013 when Pekka
Nikander, with a group of Finnish engineers, decided to organise the
platform development as an open source movement.

## ELL-i Vision

Our vision is to organically grow ELL-i from its modest
Power-over-Ethernet beginning into a platform for modern, integrated
electrical power, automation, and control over one cable.  Anyone can
innovate and install their own equipment.  Today, just getting a
simple light installed or moved typically requires a visit from a
technician, changes to the official electrical plan, and measurement
documents.  There is an easier way to distribute electrical and
processing power in your own home, office or factory. With so-called
[extra low voltage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extra-low_voltage)
(ELV) devices, which run at a voltage lower than 50 volts, anyone can
build and install devices.  Of course, even 48 volts is quite high when
compared to the 5 volts used in e.g. USB and touching 48 volts
terminals with bare hands is painful.  However, 48 volts enables
transporting of tens of Watts for hundreds of meters sharing a common
cable with internet communications.

Today, a majority of electronics run on DC current.  All the digital
equipment, such as laptops and mobile phones, run on a DC current and
require an AC/DC adapter.  Increasingly more electrical appliances can
be operated with DC power.

We have looked at the existing standards and DIY components to find a
nice open solution.  While Power-over-Ethernet (PoE) was a clear
choice as the backbone for the network due to its characteristics and
good components availability, there are no DIY modules on the market.
Therefore we decided to start the ELL-i (ELectrical Line Intelligence)
community and project, to initially build a DIY board that can be
utilised at the end of a PoE line.  In the future we plan to expand
the choice of various open source modules.

## Organisation

ELL-i is being formally organized in a way that enables effective
implementation and distribution of the products and subsystems needed
for solution development in the spirit of open source.

ELL-i is registered to The Finnish Trade Register (ID: 2555591-8) with
name Ell-i open source co-operative.

ELL-i is a member of EIT ICT Labs Business Development Accelerator and
supported by EIT ICT Labs. 
